Saying Goodbye: A Last Supper from China Real Time

PHOTO: GETTY IMAGES/REUTERS/WEIBO/AP/SKY CANAVES
Jul 3, 2017 6:30 am HKT
0 COMMENTS
"Under heaven," wrote the Ming Dynasty poet Feng Menglong, "there's no such thing as a never-ending feast."

Mr. Feng was probably onto something.

Since its launch in 2008, when it was known as China Journal, China Real Time has tried to serve up as diverse and nourishing a banquet as possible to readers hungry to understand the world's most populous country and what became, in that time, the world's second-largest economy.

Some of the stories we covered were consumed voraciously. Chinese government efforts to crack down on the tradition of hiring strippers to perform at funerals garnered a lot of attention for some reason. So did a post on a building in Shanghai that fell over almost intact, like someone who might have washed dinner down with a little too much baijiu. And we never seemed to be able to satisfy the appetite for stories about Apple stores, fake ones in particular.

(Speaking of Apple imitators, one of our editors penned what has to be the definitive account of trying - and trying and trying and trying - to buy a phone made by Chinese hype-machine Xiaomi. He eventually succeeded in finding what he was looking for, which is more than we can say for Mao Zedong's grandson.)

Other stories caused a bit of indigestion. One post was blamed for the canceling of a popular Borat-inspired sex column published by a state-funded tabloid, while a poll inviting readers to vote on other news outlets' predictions for the outcome of a secretive leadership shuffle led to an unusual number of clarifications. Meanwhile, several serious linguists took exception to our effort to translate the names of Beijing subway stops. (That didn't stop us indulging our obsession with the Chinese language on other occasions.)


CLICK TO ENLARGE
Being a media outfit, we naturally took an interest in the workings of our Chinese counterparts, particularly those in the state sector. We told you about Xinhua's assault on April Fool's Day, China Central Television's use of footage from "Top Gun" to jazz up a story about military jet fighters, and a People's Daily pickup of a story from the Onion declaring North Korea's Kim Jong Un "the sexiest man alive."

We took advantage of the blog platform to bring you live updates on big events, including the opening ceremony of the 2008 Olympics (where we predicted big things for a sweaty vice president named Xi Jinping), the last press conference of former Premier Wen Jiabao (which ended with a surprise shot at now-jailed princeling official Bo Xilai) and - for seven full days - the pro-democracy Occupy protests in Hong Kong (which led to this charming story on protest romance).

We also revived a relic of the newspaper era - the man-(and woman)-on-the-street interview - and used it to gain insight into how Beijingers see everything from gun control to Kim Jung Un.

Although we were told the blog was not the place to publish breaking news, we sometimes did so by accident. Problems with milk powder grew into a deadly scandal, a missing dissident turned into a diplomatic crisis, and a police chief's strange disappearance morphed into five-alarm political drama.


We chronicled a Fukushima-inspired salt panic, took you to a bird sanctuary where a U.S. internet cable comes in close contact with China's military hackers, and extracted unexpected insights from graves belonging to the ancestors of fallen security czar Zhou Yongkang.

We also examined the China's closed capital account from a personal vantage point and gave you data  on everything from inequality and family wealth to air pollution, the economic aftershocks of earthquakes and the annual consumption of rabbit meat in Sichuan province.

When this site was born, China's GDP growth was in double digits, Beijing was building toward the triumph of the Olympics and China-themed blogs were proliferating across the internet. Nine years later, China's government is struggling to keep the economy growing above 6%, the Olympics are a fading memory and many a China blog has fallen silent.

The China story has changed, and so have the tools for telling it. Regretfully, the time has come for China Real Time to end its run. We plan to transfer the same energy and insight that animated the blog to covering China on WSJ's other platforms, including the main English and Chinese websites. We'll continue to use the @ChinaRealTime Twitter account to send out links to China stories, and you can follow your favorite Journal reporters and columnists and receive notifications when new articles are published by downloading the WSJ app for iOS or Android.

Finally, we plan to keep the China Real Time site online to serve as an archive so readers can continue to revisit this remarkable period in China's history.